you
now there are some interesting
challenges in threshold known in the
filtering problem so here I show the
sort of data that you can collect in a
filtering system so you can see the
scores and the status of relevance so
the first one has a score thirty six
point five and it's relevant the second
one is non-relevant etcetera of course
we have a lot of documents for which we
don't know the status because we have
never dealing with them into the user so
as you can see here we only see the
judgments of documents delivered to the
user so this is not a random sample so
it's a sensitive data it's kind of
biased so that creates some difficulty
for learning and secondly there are in
general very little labeled data and
very few random in the data so it's a
thought it's also challenging for
machine learning approaches typically
they require require more training data
and in the extremely case at the
beginning we don't even have a min
labeled data as well the system in India
has to make a decision so that's a very
difficult problem at the beginning
finally there is also this issue of
exploration versus exploitation
trade-off now this means we also want to
explore the talk in the space a little
bit and to see if the user might be
interested in documents that we haven't
delivered so in other words we're gonna
explore the space of user interests by
testing whether the user might be
interesting some other documents that
currently I'm not matching the users
interest so well so how do we do that
well we could lower the threshold a
little bit and to just deliver some near
misses to the user to see what the user
would respond to see how the user would
respond to this extra document
and this is a trade-off because on the
one hand you want to explore but on the
other hand you don't want to really
explore too much because then you would
over deliver non-random information so
exploitation means you would exploit
what you learn about the user let's say
you know the user is interested in this
particular topic so you don't want to
deviate that much and but if you don't
deviate at all then you don't explore at
all that's also not good you might miss
opportunity another interest of the user
so this is a dynamic and that's also a
difficult problem to solve now how do we
solve these problems in general I think
one can use the empirical utility
optimization strategy and this strategy
is basically to optimize the threshold
based on historical data just as you
have seen on the previous slide so you
can just compute the utility on the
training data for each candidate the
score threshold pretend that what if oh
I cut at this point what if I cut at cut
at the different scoring threshold point
what would happen what's utility since
these are training data we can kind of
compute the utility right we know their
relevance status or we assume that we
know relevance status it's they're based
on approximation of click-throughs right
so then we can just choose the threshold
that gives us the maximum utility on the
training data but this of course doesn't
account for exploration that we just
talked about and we there is also the
difficulty of bias training sample as we
mentioned so in general we can only get
an upper bound or for the true optimal
threshold because the the threshold
might be actually lower than this so
it's possible that the discard the item
might be actually interesting to the
user so how do we solve this problem
well we generally and as I said we can
lower the threshold to explore a little
bit so here's one particular protocol
the better camera
you know so the idea is following so
here I show a ranked list of all the
training documents that we have seen so
far and they are ranked by their
positions and on the y-axis we show the
utility of course this function depends
on how you specify the coefficients in
the utility function but we can then
imagine that depending on the cutoff
position we will have a utility that
means suppose I cap at this position and
that would be the utility so we can for
example identify some caffeine cutoff
point the optimal point theta optimal is
the point when we would achieve the
maximum utility if we had chosen this
rash code right and there is also zero
threshold zero utility is dress code you
can see at this cutoff the utility is
zero now what does that mean
that means if I'd lower the threshold a
little bit and now I I reach this
threshold the utility would be lower but
it's still positive it's still
non-negative at least right so it's not
as high as the optimal utility but it
gives us a safe point to explore the
threshold as I eventually explained it's
desirable to explore the interest of
space so it's desirable to low the
threshold based on your training data so
that means in general we want to set the
stretch or somewhere in this range let's
say we can use alpha to control the
deviation from the optimal utility point
so you can see the formula of the
threshold would be just the
interpolation of the zero utility
threshold and the optimal between in the
threshold now the question is how how
should we set alpha you know and when
should we deviate more from the optimal
utility point well this can depend on
multiple factors and one way to solve
the problem is to encourage
this threshold mechanism to explore up
to the zero point and that's a safe
point but we're not going to necessarily
reach all the way to the zero point but
rather will be new use other parameters
to further define alpha and this
specifically is as follows so there will
be a beta parameter to control the
deviation from the optimal threshold and
this can be based on what can be
accounting for the overfitting to the
training data let's say and so this can
be just adjusting the factor but what's
more interesting is this gamma parameter
here and you can see in this formula
gamma is controlling the the influence
of the number of examples in training
data set so you can see in this formula
as in which denotes the number of
training examples becomes bigger then it
would actually encourage it less
exploration in other words when n is
very small it would try to explore more
and that just means if we have seen few
examples we're not sure whether we have
exhausted the space of interests so we
would explore but as we have seen many
examples from the user many data points
then we feel that we probably don't have
to explore more so this gives us a
dynamical strategy for exploration right
the more examples we have seen the less
exploration we are going to do so the
threshold will be closer to the optimal
threshold so that's the basic idea of
this support now this approach actually
has been working well in some evaluation
studies empirically effective and also
can work on arbitrary utility with a
proper the lower bound and explicitly
addresses the exploration exploitation
trade-off and the kind of uses the zero
using the threshold point as a safeguard
for exploration and exporting trade-off
we're not never going to explore further
than the zero utility point so if you
take the analogy of gambling and you
don't want to risk on losing money so
it's a safe spirit the conservative
strategy for exploration and the problem
is of course this approach is purely
heuristic and the zero utility a lower
bound is also often too conservative and
there are of course a more advanced
machine learning approaches that have
been proposed for solving these problems
and this is the active research area so
to summarize there are two strategies
for recommender systems or filtering
systems one is content-based which is
looking at item similarity the other is
collaborative filtering which is looking
at this use of similarity in this
lecture we've covered content-based
filtering approach in the next lecture
we will talk about the collaborative
filtering in content-based the filtering
system we generally have to solve
several problems related to filtering
decision and learning etc and such a
system capture to be built based on a
search engine system by adding a
threshold mechanism and adding an
adaptive learning algorithm to allow the
system to learn from long term feedback
from the user